README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img height="150" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/M9gbBd9nbDrOTu1Mqx/giphy.gif"  />
</div>

###

<h1 align="center">Hey there 👋, I'm Anukul Chandra</h1>
<h3 align="center"> AI / Machine Learning Engineer | Python | FastAPI | MLOpS | Scikit-Learn </h3>

---

## 👩‍💻 About Me  
- 🎓 CSE Graduate from Daffodil International University.  
- 🔭 Machine Learning Engineer with strong interest in **backend development and FastAPI-based ML systems**.  
- 📚 I'm currently learning AI Engineering, with hands-on work in advanced Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Large Language Models (LLMs), and MLOps for production-level deployment.  
- ⚡ In my free time, I build practical ML and backend projects, enjoy coding, traveling, watching movies, and playing online games.

 --- 

## 🧰 I have technical experience and interest in:

* Machine Learning
* Natural Language Processing
* MLOps
* Microcontrollers
* Data Science 
  
---


<h2 align="left"> 🧰 🛠 Technical Skills : </h2>

##

<div align="left">

  <!-- Programming Languages -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396?logo=openjdk&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-003B57?logo=database&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Backend & APIs (VERY IMPORTANT for recruiters) -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?logo=flask&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/REST%20API-005571?logo=api&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Data Science & ML -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?logo=numpy&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?logo=pandas&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--Learn-F7931E?logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?logo=tensorflow&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- LLM & AI -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugging%20Face-FFD21E?logo=huggingface&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NLP-8E44AD?style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Databases -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-003B57?logo=database&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Tools -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?logo=jupyter&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Anaconda-44A833?logo=anaconda&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-007ACC?logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- DevOps & Version Control -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?logo=git&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?logo=github&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Frontend Basics -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?logo=html5&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?logo=css3&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

</div>

##

---

# 📂 Featured Projects  


##  📸 **[Smart Attendance System Using Face Recognition(On Going) ](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Smart-Attendance-System-Using-Face-detection/blob/main/README.md)**
- 🎯 Smart Attendance System Using Face Recognition :
 → A real-time smart attendance system built using Computer Vision and Machine Learning.
This project automatically records attendance through face recognition, prevents proxy attendance, and synchronizes records with Google Sheets using secure cloud APIs.

--- 

##  🎬 **[Movie Recommendation System with FastAPI](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Movie-Recommendation-Project-With-FastApi)**
- 🍽️ Content Based Movie Recommend With FastApi:
  → A production-ready Movie Recommendation Web API built using FastAPI.
This project serves personalized movie suggestions powered by a Machine Learning model and exposes RESTful endpoints for easy integration with any frontend.

 ---

## 🍕 **[Sentiment Anlysis ](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Sentiment-Analysis-)** 
 - 🍽️ A sentiment analysis project classifying IMDB movie reviews as positive or negative using machine learning. Includes data preprocessing, model training, and evaluation.

---

## 📊 **[Quora_duplicate_question_prediction](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Quora_duplicate_question_prediction.git)**
 - 🍽️ NLP project to predict whether two Quora questions are duplicates using text preprocessing, feature engineering, and machine learning. It is deployed on "render ".  

---

## 👨‍⚕️ 🩺 **[ Personalized_Cancer_Prediction-Doctor_Side-](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Personalized_Cancer_Prediction-Doctor_Side-.git)**
 - 🍽️ A machine learning-driven web application that provides personalized cancer risk predictions. Built with FastAPI and powered by multiple ML models, this tool helps healthcare professionals and researchers analyze genetic mutation data to generate detailed cancer risk assessments..  

---

## 🚢🚢  **[Titanic-Passenger-Survival-Prediction-Project](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Titanic-Passenger-Survival-Prediction-Project)**
 - 🍽️ A machine learning–based Flask REST API that predicts passenger survival on the Titanic using demographic and travel-related features. The project demonstrates end-to-end ML deployment by integrating a trained classification model into a Flask web service for real-time predictions.

---

## 🏢 **[Hall Management System](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Hall-Management-System)**
- 🏠 A Hall Management System built using **Java** and **MySQL** to manage student halls efficiently.  
  The project implements user authentication, student and employee information management, hall facilities, canteen services, and rules using structured databases, CRUD operations, and object-oriented programming principles.

---

## 🌱 Currently Working On 

- Practice Python for advanced Machine learning.
- Learning Data Science,Deep Learning and NLP 
- Learning Artificial Intelligence Core concept 


---

###


## 🤝 You Can Also find me here :

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/anukul-chandra-5585-diu/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=LinkedIn&logo=linkedin&label=&color=0077B5&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="linkedin logo"  />
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Twitter&logo=twitter&label=&color=1DA1F2&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="twitter logo"  />
  <a href="https://www.facebook.com/Anukul.Chandra.Akash" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Facebook&logo=facebook&label=&color=1877F2&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="facebook logo"  />
  </a>
  <a href="anukulchandra5585@gmail.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Gmail&logo=gmail&label=&color=D14836&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="gmail logo"  />
  </a>

  ## 📬 Contact Me : 

[![WhatsApp](https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-Chat-green?logo=whatsapp)](https://wa.me/8801957541387)

</div>

---
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake-dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake.svg" />
  <img alt="github contribution grid snake animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake.svg" />
</picture>

<h4 align="center">⭐ Thanks for visiting my profile! Keep learning and analyzing 🚀</h4>

Commit message:

Revise Medico AI and Smart Attendance System details
Updated project descriptions and links in README.md.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img height="150" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/M9gbBd9nbDrOTu1Mqx/giphy.gif"  />
</div>

###

<h1 align="center">Hey there 👋, I'm Anukul Chandra</h1>
<h3 align="center"> AI / Machine Learning Engineer | Python | FastAPI | MLOpS | Scikit-Learn </h3>

---

## 👩‍💻 About Me  
- 🎓 CSE Graduate from Daffodil International University.  
- 🔭 Machine Learning Engineer with strong interest in **backend development and FastAPI-based ML systems**.  
- 📚 I'm currently learning AI Engineering, with hands-on work in advanced Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Large Language Models (LLMs), and MLOps for production-level deployment.  
- ⚡ In my free time, I build practical ML and backend projects, enjoy coding, traveling, watching movies, and playing online games.

 --- 

## 🧰 I have technical experience and interest in:

* Machine Learning
* Natural Language Processing
* MLOps
* Microcontrollers
* Data Science 
  
---


<h2 align="left"> 🧰 🛠 Technical Skills : </h2>

##

<div align="left">

  <!-- Programming Languages -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396?logo=openjdk&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-003B57?logo=database&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Backend & APIs (VERY IMPORTANT for recruiters) -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?logo=flask&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/REST%20API-005571?logo=api&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Data Science & ML -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?logo=numpy&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?logo=pandas&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Scikit--Learn-F7931E?logo=scikit-learn&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?logo=tensorflow&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- LLM & AI -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hugging%20Face-FFD21E?logo=huggingface&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/NLP-8E44AD?style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Databases -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?logo=mysql&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL-003B57?logo=database&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Tools -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Jupyter-F37626?logo=jupyter&logoColor=black&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Anaconda-44A833?logo=anaconda&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS%20Code-007ACC?logo=visualstudiocode&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- DevOps & Version Control -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Git-F05032?logo=git&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-181717?logo=github&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

  <img width="20"/>

  <!-- Frontend Basics -->
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?logo=html5&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>
  <img width="12"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?logo=css3&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge" height="40"/>

</div>

##

---

# 📂 Featured Projects  

## 🏥 **[Medico AI: Intelligent Medical Assistant](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Medico-AI-Assistant-)**
- 🎯 Medico AI: Intelligent Medical Assistant :
 → Medico AI is an advanced, AI-powered healthcare chatbot designed to assist users with medical queries, symptom analysis, and health guidance. Unlike simple rule-based bots, Medico AI utilizes Large Language Models (LLM) and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to provide context-aware, accurate, and medically relevant responses based on a curated knowledge base
---

##  📸 **[Smart Attendance System Using Face Recognition(On Going) ](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Smart-Attendance-System-Using-Face-detection)**
- 🎯 Smart Attendance System Using Face Recognition :
 → A real-time smart attendance system built using Computer Vision and Machine Learning.
This project automatically records attendance through face recognition, prevents proxy attendance, and synchronizes records with Google Sheets using secure cloud APIs.

--- 

##  🎬 **[Movie Recommendation System with FastAPI](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Movie-Recommendation-Project-With-FastApi)**
- 🍽️ Content Based Movie Recommend With FastApi:
  → A production-ready Movie Recommendation Web API built using FastAPI.
This project serves personalized movie suggestions powered by a Machine Learning model and exposes RESTful endpoints for easy integration with any frontend.

 ---

## 🍕 **[Sentiment Anlysis ](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Sentiment-Analysis-)** 
 - 🍽️ A sentiment analysis project classifying IMDB movie reviews as positive or negative using machine learning. Includes data preprocessing, model training, and evaluation.

---

## 📊 **[Quora_duplicate_question_prediction](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Quora_duplicate_question_prediction.git)**
 - 🍽️ NLP project to predict whether two Quora questions are duplicates using text preprocessing, feature engineering, and machine learning. It is deployed on "render ".  

---

## 👨‍⚕️ 🩺 **[ Personalized_Cancer_Prediction-Doctor_Side-](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Personalized_Cancer_Prediction-Doctor_Side-.git)**
 - 🍽️ A machine learning-driven web application that provides personalized cancer risk predictions. Built with FastAPI and powered by multiple ML models, this tool helps healthcare professionals and researchers analyze genetic mutation data to generate detailed cancer risk assessments..  

---

## 🚢🚢  **[Titanic-Passenger-Survival-Prediction-Project](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Titanic-Passenger-Survival-Prediction-Project)**
 - 🍽️ A machine learning–based Flask REST API that predicts passenger survival on the Titanic using demographic and travel-related features. The project demonstrates end-to-end ML deployment by integrating a trained classification model into a Flask web service for real-time predictions.

---

## 🏢 **[Hall Management System](https://github.com/Anukul-Chandra/Hall-Management-System)**
- 🏠 A Hall Management System built using **Java** and **MySQL** to manage student halls efficiently.  
  The project implements user authentication, student and employee information management, hall facilities, canteen services, and rules using structured databases, CRUD operations, and object-oriented programming principles.

---

## 🌱 Currently Working On 

- Practice Python for advanced Machine learning.
- Learning Data Science,Deep Learning and NLP 
- Learning Artificial Intelligence Core concept 


---

###


## 🤝 You Can Also find me here :

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/anukul-chandra-5585-diu/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=LinkedIn&logo=linkedin&label=&color=0077B5&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="linkedin logo"  />
  </a>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Twitter&logo=twitter&label=&color=1DA1F2&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="twitter logo"  />
  <a href="https://www.facebook.com/Anukul.Chandra.Akash" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Facebook&logo=facebook&label=&color=1877F2&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="facebook logo"  />
  </a>
  <a href="anukulchandra5585@gmail.com" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Gmail&logo=gmail&label=&color=D14836&logoColor=white&labelColor=&style=for-the-badge" height="25" alt="gmail logo"  />
  </a>

  ## 📬 Contact Me : 

[![WhatsApp](https://img.shields.io/badge/WhatsApp-Chat-green?logo=whatsapp)](https://wa.me/8801957541387)

</div>

---
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake-dark.svg" />
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)"
    srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake.svg" />
  <img alt="github contribution grid snake animation"
    src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platane/snk/output/github-contribution-grid-snake.svg" />
</picture>

<h4 align="center">⭐ Thanks for visiting my profile! Keep learning and analyzing 🚀</h4>
